---
layout: post
title: Version 2.1
author: matthew
---

<div class="r" align="right">
<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/winnie_quan/2295947472/" title="Untitled"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3048/2295947472_ed1a3fe0e1.jpg" width="500" height="281" alt="Untitled"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Today we have released **version 2.1** of FixMyStreet, with some new features
and a variety of improvements for users and reusers.

New features include allowing users to hide their own name on reports/updates,
and a new graph-based /reports page, which you can see in operation on our
[main UK site](https://www.fixmystreet.com/reports). We also now resize photos
client-side before uploading, given the increase in very large images these
days.

Admin improvements include adding an 'inactive' state to categories, so you can
prevent a category being used for new reports but still have it available in
filters, various improvements to the inspect form and the new report process
for inspectors, and an easier way for inspectors to shortlist all reports in
their view.

Geolocation is back on the alert page, lost sometime last year, and some random
blank spaces are no longer clickable, hooray!

Development-wise, FixMyStreet now supports Debian stretch and perl 5.24, badly
configured SMTP options should now be spotted, and we have refactored and
simplified the CSS used for header/content/navigation. This may mean you can
simplify overrides in your cobrand. If you wish to have a static front page
rather than the normal report page, that's now possible by creating an
`about/homepage.html` template in your cobrand, and cobrands can now easily
change the new report pin colour.

The test suite now runs each file in a transaction which means it can be run in
parallel and sped up dramatically; on the other hand, on Travis we added code
coverage which slowed it down again. 

Two **backwards incompatible** changes that may require changes to your own
templates if you have customised them:

* The `nav-wrapper-2` class has been removed. If you have a custom footer
  template, replace that class with 'container'.

* The `/reports` page now uses different generated data. If you have a custom
  `reports/index.html` template and wish to keep it, you may need to call
  `update-all-reports` with a `--table` argument to generate the old style
  data.

[Full changelog](https://github.com/mysociety/fixmystreet/releases/tag/v2.1)
