---
layout: post
title: Version 2.5
author: matthew
---

<div class="r" align="right">
<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/catinatree/8299877655/" title="White christmas!!! &#x3D;D"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8501/8299877655_ea1faf5bb3.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="White christmas!!! &#x3D;D"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Today we have released **version 2.5** of FixMyStreet; happy solstice!

This release contains a number of front end improvements, especially to the
sign in flow. This was the result of a lot of work to simplify the whole
process, and we’ve written more about it on the
[mySociety blog](https://www.mysociety.org/2018/12/20/open-sesame-simpler-log-in-forms-on-fixmystreet/).

Other front end improvements range from a more prominent display of "state" on
report page, making sure you don’t need two taps on a report list entry on a
touchscreen, and clearer relocation options while you’re reporting a problem.

Moderation has had some work done – it can now potentially edit a report’s
category, should you wish it to do so; it stores more of a report’s original
data upon moderation, and also now stores all moderation history, making that
visible in the report/update admin interface.

Bugfixes include one reported by FixaMinGata (back in early 2017!) about better
map zoom behaviour when clicking on pins and going back; not escaping HTML
entities in report titles pulled in by Ajax; and show missing reopening/fixed
questionnaire responses when tey lacked their own separate update. We also
fixed some issues with our Open311 contact group handling, and improved the
validation of fetched reports timestamps.

We now strip Exif data on uploaded photos, and have added a new config
variable, `SYMLINK_FULL_SIZE`, that can be used to symlink your full size
photos out of the photo cache rather than copy them, if your static files are
being served by your web server.

[Full changelog](https://github.com/mysociety/fixmystreet/releases/tag/v2.5)

## Upgrading

Due to the sign-in and banner changes, this release changes a number of the
base templates. If you have overridden any related templates in your cobrand
and not fed those changes upstream, you may need to make adjustments to match;
please use our `bin/cobrand-checks` script to help make comparisons between
your changes.
