---
layout: post
title: Version 2.4
author: matthew
---

<div class="r" align="right">
<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/matthamm/896309437/" title="Fattoria Palazetta, Field of Sunflowers, Cecina, Tuscany, Italy"><img src="https://farm2.staticflickr.com/1199/896309437_33a2c84a4e.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="Fattoria Palazetta, Field of Sunflowers, Cecina, Tuscany, Italy"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>

Today we have released **version 2.4** of FixMyStreet.

This release contains a security fix to prevent the potential leak of a user
account's phone number, if you knew their email address; please upgrade your
installation as soon as you can, or if that is not possible, please apply
commit `abcb1f86` to your installation in the meantime. We have also released
version 2.3.5 which is identical to 2.3.4 except with this fix applied.

The front end has removed its input placeholders, for better accessibility;
improved the report button in the navigation bar to be more context-aware and
allow for easier reporting in the same location; will only show 6 months of
reports on the around page by default, to hopefully deal with the issues of too
many or too few reports being shown; and removes the need for a separate
per-category ajax call by returning all category data up front.

The admin now trims spaces from search input (at last!), lets you edit a
category group, and has a 'send login email' button on a user's edit page, so
you don't have to ask them to do it themselves.

Bugfixes include an issue with the category filter if a category contained a
comma, fixing duplicate category display on Your Account page, and making sure
the Home link on mobile is always clickable. Staff workflows had various fixes
as well, such as inspectors being able to unset priority, seeing all fixed
issues with the map page filter, and fixing the pin dragging.

For developers, there are new hooks for e.g. custom search results, extra login
conditions, and changing the details placeholder; a new `/_dev/` URL
(accessible to superusers) for previewing confirmation/submission pages; and
the client can set bodis a repot must not be sent to (e.g. if asset selection
means it has that knowledge).

[Full changelog](https://github.com/mysociety/fixmystreet/releases/tag/v2.4)
